Inheritance wallet - Part 1 (#1081)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/inheritance-wallet/landing-page.md

---
layout: guide
title: Inheritance wallet
description: An in-depth UX reference design for a multi-key bitcoin wallet with inheritance features designed for families.
nav_order: 6
has_children: true
permalink: /guide/inheritance-wallet/
main_classes: -no-top-padding

> image: https://bitcoin.design/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/preview.jpg

Reviewer: You don't need a @2x version of the preview.jpg

> image_base: /assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/

Reviewer: You can remove the `image_base`. It is only used in galleries to define which folder the gallery images are in. You don't use galleries, so you don't need to set this.

## What are we building?

Imagine a product that helps you create and use a custody setup for your bitcoin savings while including your loved ones from the beginning. But because you plan to live a long and happy life, the app allows you to set up a recovery path that helps you recover your funds even in catastrophic scenarios. 

On top of that, the app allows you to add your heirs' hardware wallets and use them to create a dedicated inheritance key set. Since it is designed for long-term storage, it also supports regular key checks and other supporting features. 

All of this is done without compromising your financial privacy. You don't want anyone to know how much bitcoin you have or monitor your transactions.

## Chapters

### [Use case & scope]({{ '/guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/' | relative_url }})

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include image.html
   image = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-introduction.png"
   retina = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-introduction@2x.png"
   alt-text = ""
   width = 80
   height = 80
   layout = "float-left"
   link-url = "/guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/"
%}

> Before we dive into the details, we will introduce you to our main protagonists, the Jones family. We are also going to look at how they plan set up their family savings in general. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before we dive into the details, we will introduce you to the Jones family. We are also going to look at how they plan set up their family savings in general. 
```

---
layout: guide
title: Inheritance wallet
description: An in-depth UX reference design for a multi-key bitcoin wallet with inheritance features designed for families.
nav_order: 6
has_children: true
permalink: /guide/inheritance-wallet/
main_classes: -no-top-padding
image: https://bitcoin.design/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/header.png

> image_base: /assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/

Reviewer: Can delete the image_base line if you don't use the `_image-gallery` partial anywhere. You can also remove the `images_creation-wallet-basics:` object right underneath if you don't use us.

images_creation-wallet-basics:
    - file: 
      alt: 
      caption: 

---

<!--

Editor's notes

> This page covers ....  

Reviewer: What does it cover? Editor's notes are for people who might edit this file later to better understand editorial decisions made during writing, that might not be obvious.

Illustration sources

https://www.figma.com/file/h5GP5v5dYfpXXfEUXf6nvC/Family-inheritance-wallet?type=design&node-id=5542%3A2119&mode=design&t=sBtcvrDzb8MPtWaK-1

-->

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/header.jpg"
   retina = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/header@2x.jpg"
   alt-text = "Two parents handing bitcoin to their two children."

>    width = 1600

Reviewer: Width and height do not match the `header.jpg` file size. Either adjust the width and height here, or the image size. I'd suggest what I mentioned in a comment above, to have a separate preview and header file.

   height = 800
   layout = "full-width"
%}

# Family inheritance wallet 
{: .no_toc }

> The family inheritance wallet is an app designed to create flexible wallets for family savings. It offers features designed to help with sustainable long-term storage and inheritance planning.

Reviewer: Considering [the situation](https://stacker.news/items/571729) we had recently where someone posted the daily spending wallet to Stacker News and people thought it was as real wallet, do we need to include the term `reference design` somewhere in this intro sentence? Not sure if it would make a difference...

But when it comes to inheritance, technology is not everything. Knowledge, documentation, practice  and social  processes are important for any setup to work over the long term. This exploration includes not only designs and prototypes of the wallet application, but also thoughts around social processes to ensure that funds will not be lost.

## What are we building?

Imagine a product that helps you create and use a custody setup for your bitcoin savings while including your loved ones from the beginning. But because you plan to live a long and happy life, the app allows you to set up a recovery path that helps you recover your funds even in catastrophic scenarios. 

On top of that, the app allows you to add your heirs' hardware wallets and use them to create a dedicated inheritance key set. Since it is designed for long-term storage, it also includes regular key checks and other supporting features. 

> All of this is done without compromising your financial privacy. You don't want anyone to know how much bitcoin you have or monitor your transactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All of this is done without compromising your financial privacy. You don't want anyone to know how much bitcoin you have or to monitor your transactions.
```

## Chapters

### [Overview]({{ '/guide/inheritance-wallet/overview/' | relative_url }})

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include image.html
   image = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-introduction.png"
   retina = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-introduction@2x.png"
   alt-text = ""
   width = 80
   height = 80
   layout = "float-left"
   link-url = "/guide/inheritance-wallet/introduction/"
%}

> Before we dive into the details, we will introduce you to the Jones family. We are also going to look at how they plan set up their family savings in general. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we dive into the details, we will introduce you to the Jones family. We are also going to look at how they plan to set up their family savings in general. 
```

</div>

---

### [Wallet creation]({{ '/guide/inheritance-wallet/wallet-creation/' | relative_url }})

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include image.html
   image = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-wallet-creation.png"
   retina = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-wallet-creation@2x.png"
   alt-text = ""
   width = 80
   height = 80
   layout = "float-left"
   link-url = "/guide/inheritance-wallet/wallet-creation/"
%}

Our application lets users create flexible multi-key wallets with timelocked recovery paths to help them recover funds while they are still alive. On top of that, users can create and manage dedicated inheritance keys that are held by their heirs.

</div>

---

### Wallet backup (coming soon)

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include image.html
   image = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-wallet-backup.png"
   retina = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-backup@2x.png"
   alt-text = ""
   width = 80
   height = 80
   layout = "float-left"
   link-url = "/guide/inheritance-wallet/backup/"
%}

> When backing up multi-key wallets there are more moving parts to consider than with single-key wallets. Our application helps users with that. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When backing up multi-key wallets, there are more moving parts to consider than with single-key wallets. Our application helps users with that. 
```

</div>

--- 

### Testing (coming soon)

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include image.html
   image = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-testing.png"
   retina = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-testing@2x.png"
   alt-text = ""
   width = 80
   height = 80
   layout = "float-left"
   link-url = "/guide/inheritance-wallet/testing/"
%}

To help users make sure that their wallet works as intended, the app offers features that let them test their setup, before they move all of their savings to their newly created wallet.

</div>

--- 

### Operational phase (coming soon)

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include image.html
   image = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-operations.png"
   retina = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-operations@2x.png"
   alt-text = ""
   width = 80
   height = 80
   layout = "float-left"
   link-url = "/guide/inheritance-wallet/regular-use/"
%}

> Involving the potential heirs early on is great, but it also has potential implications when it comes to privacy and security. Our application combines built-in features with social processes to mitigate this risk. It also helps to prevent premature activation of the inheritance keys. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Involving the potential heirs early on is great, but it also has implications for privacy and security. Our application combines built-in features with social processes to mitigate this risk. It also helps to prevent premature activation of the inheritance keys. 
```
Tweak for simplicity.

</div>

--- 

### Managing change (coming soon)

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include image.html
   image = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-changing.png"
   retina = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-changing@2x.png"
   alt-text = ""
   width = 80
   height = 80
   layout = "float-left"
   link-url = "/guide/inheritance-wallet/managing-change/"
%}

> Over time it might become necessary for users to make changes to their savings wallet because someone lost a key or they want to make changes to the overall wallet configuration. Our app helps users to make such changes and update the backup and inheritance documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Over time, it might become necessary for users to make changes to their savings wallet because someone lost a key or they want to make changes to the overall wallet configuration. Our app helps users make such changes and update the backup and inheritance documentation.
```

</div>

--- 

### Recovery & inheritance (coming soon)

<div class="center" markdown="1">

{% include image.html
   image = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-recovery.png"
   retina = "assets/images/guide/inheritance-wallet/icon-recovery@2x.png"
   alt-text = ""
   width = 80
   height = 80
   layout = "float-left"
   link-url = "/guide/inheritance-wallet/wallet-recovery/"
%}

When it's time for the heirs to claim their inheritance, the Jones' children can use their own signing devices to recover their funds.

</div>

--- 

**Resources**

> - All illustrations, mockups and interactive prototypes are available in this [Figma design file](https://www.figma.com/file/h5GP5v5dYfpXXfEUXf6nvC/Family-inheritance-wallet?type=design&node-id=5542%3A2119&mode=design&t=sBtcvrDzb8MPtWaK-1)

Reviewer: Consistency: Add period to end of both bullets or none.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All illustrations, mockups and interactive prototypes are available in this [Figma design file](https://www.figma.com/file/h5GP5v5dYfpXXfEUXf6nvC/Family-inheritance-wallet?type=design&node-id=5542%3A2119&mode=design&t=sBtcvrDzb8MPtWaK-1).
```
